[Music]
Question from a message from Tran Nam:
Why, for the past 3 years, have I always
thought of myself as
rich, very
rich, thinking I'm very talented and better than
others, but the reality is that
I'm very poor, I don't make any money,
everything I do fails and I suffer losses. Now I feel
like I'm about to starve to death.
I don't know what this is. That is, in
reality, he is very
poor and everything he does
fails, but in his mind,
in his delusion, he always thinks
he is very rich and very talented.
That is, he can't control himself. So, ladies and gentlemen,
those poor people who think they are rich, those who
lack ability who think they are
very talented, often have
this mindset: when they think they are very talented, they
calculate how others do business, and then they
borrow
money because they think they are very talented, they
think this
business will be successful, right? That is, they
think they are so talented and think they have a lot of
money, so they will succeed.  With that kind of trend,
when you bring in capital and start a
business, it will fail. That's why you
say everything you do will fail and result in losses. That's true.
Now you should
know who you are, that is,
you should know yourself. To know who you are,
first we have to work for someone, right? A
student is the same;
don't go straight to being a boss after graduating.
We should work for someone because the
knowledge from school will give you
the feeling that you are smart.
This is my thinking when I just
graduated; I
thought I was very smart. Then I started to
think about business, but in reality, that
knowledge is far removed from the market. Because when
you interact with the market, you
interact with people's hearts, so you
will know what people are like.
Because you know people,
you can achieve success. If you don't know
people, you will often fail.
So, fresh graduates, don't go
straight to being a boss; go work for
someone. Working for someone will let you know
your true potential.  What am
I like when I work
outside the home and learn
how to communicate, how to do business, how to
work? That means I'm under the shadow of
others. Then you learn from
experience, you
assess yourself, the market,
society, and when
you stand on your own, you wo
n't fail. That's what Yen is saying about the present. As for the karmic connections
that led to this, according to
Yen's thinking, in a
previous life, I was a wealthy person.
I was
rich, so in my subconscious, the
way of life and
thinking of
wealthy people is always flowing. There are those who were rich and then suddenly went
bankrupt. It's like
going from rich to poor; you have
n't immediately adapted, right? For example, you're at the market
buying good things, and suddenly you're
bankrupt, and you say you're going to buy the
last thing at the market. Usually,
you go to the beginning of the market, and
you go to the market first, buying the best things.  4:30,
but poor people
never go to the market at 4:30 PM. They wait
until 6:30 or 7 PM when the market is already closed,
leaving only the last remaining items for the
vendors to sell cheaply. I just bought something, do you
see? That's right, those who
think they're rich never
go to the market around 7 PM or 6 PM, they
still go at
4:30 PM. At that time, there aren't any cheap items,
right? That's why this is karma.
In a previous life, you were a
wealthy person who enjoyed all the blessings, and
now in this life you're born into a poor family and
become poor. And
because you were talented in your previous life, you looked down on others, so in
this life
you're not as talented anymore. That's cause and effect. If you're rich
but you spend all your blessings,
you become poor. That means you only
know how to reap the rewards, not sow the seeds,
so you can't continue the path of wealth and
prosperity. And when you're wealthy, you look down on
the poor, thinking you're a
high-ranking official, so that's why...  That will
cause you to have no fame in this life,
meaning you won't be good at anything.
So, through this, you must cultivate
this karma. Respect the poor,
help the needy, start
with the smallest things, like
picking up a dropped item for
someone, giving up your seat on the bus,
saying something to make them
happy,
encouraging them when they are in
difficulty. If you have money, give money; if you have
words, give words. In this way,
you will lose this illusion, it
will transform this karma. You will
become someone who can empathize
with others wherever you go, and you will have many
means to help others in times of
trouble and difficulty. You can be a
person who shares with everyone. Therefore, you
must treat everyone with equality.
From animals, be equal to
animals; then be equal to the poor, the suffering, the
sick, the unfortunate.
Don't despise those who despise you; respect
even
those who don't respect you, those
who look down on you. Then you will have one thing...
Today,
I'm sharing with everyone how to show
respect to
others when you have an
unwholesome or contemptuous mind.
Imagine
yourself bowing three times to them. That's my
practice from the beginning, keeping
my mind always submissive to
others. Can you do
that? When someone does something unpleasant to you,
turn back and examine
your own mind, examine cause and
effect, so you can
reduce your anger and malice.
Then, you can visualize bowing
three times to that person because they gave
you an opportunity to cultivate and transform
your mind. That's what I often
use, I use it
frequently, I use it often, and I haven't given it up yet. I will never give it up.
Perhaps I
won't
abandon this practice until I reach the highest enlightenment, because our Buddha,
after attaining enlightenment under the
Bodhi tree, observed to see if there was anyone else in
this universe, this three thousand great
worlds, to bow to.
Is there anyone else who would call him "teacher"?
Therefore, the method of showing respect
and gratitude to others should
never be abandoned. That's just my personal opinion, folks.